[MUSIC]
My name is Wajih and
I'm a security engineer at Google working
in the digital forensics department.
Do you need a background in cybersecurity?
No you don't.
My past experiences is working at
a water park as a snow cone machine guy.
I worked at a movie theater selling
popcorn in concession stands.
During my undergrad, I was a bio
major at first like my freshman year.
I met someone in a bus who was
mentioning about this cool
cybersecurity startup that
just sounded really cool.
Some strategies I leveraged to
keep up to date on the latest
cybersecurity trends is going on
online forums such as Medium to
research different security trends and
topics.
I personally use Medium a lot
as I could filter by the tag of
like I want to find articles
related to cybersecurity and
or I want to find articles
related to cloud security.
Based off their filtering algorithm,
I just go on and see like what other people
are talking about and
then that's what helps me keep up to date.
If it's more of like networking that
you're looking forward to,
then I highly recommend just
going out to those like conferences.
My advice for people wanting to get into
cybersecurity is don't be too overwhelmed
with trying to understand every single
specialization within cybersecurity.
There's so much going on within the
cybersecurity field in terms of trends and
it's nice to stay up to
date with all of those but
sometimes you need to take a step back and
prioritize what subjects
within cybersecurity you
are staying most up to date like on.
I love this job.
I love the challenges.
I feel like there is a shortage in
cybersecurity professionals out there from
just past experiences, hearing from other
friends in computer science fields.
Most of them say that oh it's too hard,
too complicated to get in.
Don't listen to those people.
I encourage you to push through.
It's definitely well worth it.
First just get the fundamentals down and
be persistent.